the Hamas run Health Ministry in Gaza
says 150 Palestinians have been killed
in Israeli strikes in the last day the
war against Hamas is putting more
pressure on displaced people seeking
Refuge many have been forced into the
southernmost part of the Gaza Strip
which the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu says is of key
importance a 10 story building is raised
to the ground in an Israeli air strike
on Han Yunis and attacks here have
intensified in the last week of the year
as Israel sets its sight on the south of
the gasa
strip rescue workers search for
survivors of shelling elsewhere in the
city Israel's Army has been pushing into
KH yunes as it tries to eliminate Hamas
which is widely considered a terrorist
organization this video from the Israel
Defense Forces CLA claims to show
operations against Hamas Targets in Han
yunas Israel says it has stormed the
headquarters of hamas's intelligence
Wing in the
city farther south on the border with
Egypt at least a 100,000 displaced
Palestinians have flooded into the
desolate areas on the outskirts of Rafa
in recent
days the Hall of Gaza has been destroyed
people can't celebrate the New Year our
homes have been destroyed I hope the war
will end soon I hope we can survive and
live with dignity I hope we can return
to our homes go back to school return to
everything that is familiar to us in the
new
year every run around the world is
celebrating the New Year watching
fireworks displays but for us the
fireworks are missiles all we have is
rockets and
explosions 2024 is likely to bring more
suffering for many gazans with the UN
warning that lack of supplies have left
nearly half of them at risk of
famine peace in gasa remains a distant
hope let's welcome Marina [__] from the
war studies Department of King's College
London can Israel just retake control of
the Gaza Strip border Corridor with
Egypt good afternoon well Israel Can
militarily it can retake the control
indeed um the repercussions of doing so
uh will however be very serious
specifically for the humanitarian
situation but yes of course you can uh
secure the Border it would def Factor
reverse the 2005 unilateral withdrawal
from the border from from
Gaza however yes it would make sense
from a military point of view to be able
to control that border where Israel
believes a lot of weapons are being um
brought into Gaza wouldn't this be a
feasible way though of saving civilians
on mass uh possibly putting pressure on
Egypt to allow Palestinians in I know so
many Arab countries don't want to see
more Palestinians displaced but these
are people sitting in a very dangerous
war
zone well absolutely for Israel it would
be beneficial to get the civilians out
and to have them stay in Egypt or
elsewhere to get them away from the
battlefield which would reduce then
collateral damage and civilian suffering
however Egypt has not shown any
willingness to accept civilians and that
is a problem if Israel starts
controlling the border and the civilians
remain trapped inside Gaza preventing
humanitarian Aid uh which used to come
from Egypt entering Gaza and that could
uh potentially escalate even more and I
guess Egypt wouldn't be all that Keen on
Israel setting up a military presence uh
decades after leaving that
area well absolutely it could affect
also um broader Israeli relations with
Arab Nations including Egypt um then
obviously there is a problem of um
constant trafficking across that borders
and the the there are civilian refugees
so yes that would make Israel even more
unpopular it is now and wouldn't Israel
first have to defeat Hamas to take
control of the corridor and surely
Israel isn't close to that with
Netanyahu having said that the war will
last many more
months well that is one of the step
stepstones in order to destroy Hamas
because that way you could prevent
movement out from Gaza so the Hamas
leaders that Israel believes to be in
Han Unis um such as yahwa Sinar and
Mohammed D are
trapped in Gaza and have nowhere to go
and so controlling that border would be
vital to keep the Hamas militants
trapped in order them to completely
eradicate them so that is a necessary
evil from a military stand Point great
analysis there for military analyst
Marina [__] thank you very much for
being on DW news the US military says
it's killed 10 yemeni hooti Rebels who
attacked a merchant ship in the Red Sea
helicopters responded to a distress call
from The Vessel and sank several hooty
boats as the rebels attempted to board
shipping giant mask says it has now
suspended all shipping through the Red
Sea the hoodies have been attacking
ships they say are linked to
Israel research associate Asher okabi
from Harvard University joins us it's
been two weeks since the US set up a
task force to safeguard ships in the Red
Sea and the attacks
continue
yeah the attacks continue because
they're not driven by any strategic goal
they're not driven by any military goal
but rather merely intended by the
houthis as a propaganda a propaganda War
to portray themselves as heroes in the
Middle East and focusing on external
enemies rather than on their own
humanitarian crisis uh their own ongoing
corruption and despotic Rule uh within
Yemen there's a conflict the
humanitarian conflict within Yemen
that's holding hostage 29 million
yemenese for the past n years and
clearly focusing on the external Enemy
Within Israel is far easier for the
huthis to do than work on their own
development within Yemen itself so what
is going to stop these
attacks the houthis have moved
themselves into uh the Israel Gaza War
not only because they see how popular it
is in the street the number of hundreds
of thousands of yemenese pouring out
into the street in support of the
Palestinians and against Israel uh but
really the houthis see this uh as an
opportunity to both burnish their own
credentials uh coming into the uh
conflict coming into the peace
negotiations with Saudi Arabia uh but
also to put themselves uh behind the
shield of Gaza uh they realize very
clearly that the International Coalition
that has been put together by the United
States is limited spefic specifically by
the ability of other countries to join
the war because joining the war against
the houthis would be supporting
Israel what about Iran is there
something it can
do uh so the Diplomatic efforts over the
past nine years within Yemen
specifically related to the Iranian
supported militias the houthis have only
led to the hou's ability to rearm uh
specifically after the 2016 diplomatic
negotiations that led to a ceasefire in
the Western yemeni Port of Huda allowed
the houthis to retake the port and gain
an incredible advantage in the Red Sea
both in terms of arms and militarization
and we see the ramifications of that
Huda uh ceasefire so negotiations with
Iran uh won't necessarily lead towards
any uh further ceasefires uh if anything
uh this plays uh the scenario as it's
playing out in the southern Red Sea
works very much into the Iranian larger
Mission within the Middle East to
destabilize the various different
countries uh and to work together with
the militias in the ground in order to
create Perpetual chaos in the Middle
East which targets specifically the gulf
countries uh the gulf oil countries
Middle East analyst Asha
okabi